---
chapter: 1
title: "The F-You Degree"
---

# The F-You Degree

**"When I was in college at the University of Illinois from 1968-72, the total annual cost was $1,200. This $1,200 covered everything:  Tuition, books, rent, food and even a little entertainment.**

**Each 12-week summer I worked taking down diseased Elm trees. I was paid $20 a day over a six-day week. I saved $100 a week and by Fall had the $1,200 needed for the school year.**

**Of course, I lived in one room of a dilapidated old house that should have been condemned. White rice and ketchup served as dinner two or three times a week."**

- [JL Collins, "Debt: The Unacceptable Burden"](https://jlcollinsnh.com/2015/03/26/stocks-part-xxviii-debt-the-unacceptable-burden/)

Blogger JL Collins, who wrote the seminal ["Stock Series"](https://jlcollinsnh.com/stock-series/) - a free blog-based web book that is now the defining opus of the financial independence, retire early movement (please read it before continuing on with this chapter - six hour read) - has a concept in it called [F-You Money](https://jlcollinsnh.com/manifesto/). It's the inevitable result of having a large nest egg of index funds from years of having a high savings percentage (50-80%) and being frugal while young, mixed with a well paying job. The "F-You" aspect is the sense of independence from being more financially secure than most people, who work just to buy shit and never have a nest egg.

My corollary is the $6600 F-You Degree in Computer Science.

It is now the case that computer science jobs are going to be the main vehicle for finding good employment in the future. Even jobs that you don't expect to have a coding component will soon have a programming skill requirements. This is just the result as technology eats everything it touches. Learning to program is essential for anyone looking to be a high wage income earner in the 21st century. The F-You Degree is spending four years studying at [Treehouse](https://www.teamtreehouse.com) and the [University of the People](https://www.uopeople.edu/) as well as supplemental reading of [Perlego](https://www.perlego.com) and the [free OER curriculum at Holm School](https://holmschool.github.io) in order to obtain a bachelors of science in computer science for $6600 total (not including the cost of internet). That's four years of hard work, and at the end of it you'll have a CS degree for only $6600 ($4800 at UoPeople, $1200 at Treehouse, $600 at Perlego, $0 at Holm School).

You'll be qualified for junior dev positions based on having a CS degree, you'll be skilled in multiple languages due to your independent study at Treehouse (100% completing the curriculum), and you'll have read many essential free computer science texts at Holm School and Perlego so that you'll nail all your interview questions. You will have the qualifications to break into the technology sector, and your financial life will take off at age 22 and you can max out your 401k and IRA each year and then save additional amounts in a brokerage account since you won't have student loans. This is the F-You Degree, and it will enable you to be financially independent at a young age, and it only costs $6600 total.

The F-You Degree is completely online. This is good if there isn't a public or community college in your hometown. If there is, I suggest you enroll at it in order to take CS and math classes. Note: Only take CS and math classes, you should not enroll in a full schedule. Instead, take as many CS classes as you can in four years. You essentially complete the degree in terms of math and CS requirements, but you won't have the non-major requisites. This is okay. At this point you can apply to UoPeople as a transfer student and receive credit for the CS classes you took at your public university/community college. You'll be able to put the in-person physical classes you took on your resume, as well as having the end goal of a bachelor's of science in CS from UoPeople. Public university costs a lot more than it needs to because of all the extra requisite courses you have to take in pursuit of your degree. If you skip those and only take CS and Math, you'll have more time to perform very well in those classes as well as having more free time to put towards studying on Treehouse, Perlego, Holm School, and your local public library. In fact, if you are able to score a first developer job just based on your community college classes, your job might pay for your UoPeople degree through a tuition reimbursement benefit.


You can pay for the cost of the $6600 degree along the way by working 910 hours at minimum wage over the course of four years, or 4.4 hours per week. That way you'll have no student loan debt and can put the money that you would have otherwise spent paying a loan into your 401k and IRA in index funds.

After reading the [Stock Series](https://jlcollinsnh.com/stock-series/), you might be wondering how you get a career that earns you F-You Money. That's where the F-You Degree comes in. For $6600, four years, and a lot of hard work, you'll be qualified for programming jobs while having zero debt. Living frugally while having even a junior developer job will afford you the ability to have a high savings rate, so that you can max out your 401k and IRA each year in Vanguard index funds. You might even be able to save your additional earnings in a post-tax account, in order to have an even higher savings rate and work towards [early retirement](https://www.mrmoneymustache.com/2012/01/13/the-shockingly-simple-math-behind-early-retirement/). The trick behind the F-You Degree is having that zero (or very small) debt, because having debt at age twenty-two is as harmful to you as investing at age twenty-two is helpful to you, with 40+ years of compound growth either working for you or against you.

One of the benefits of learning binary in Computer Architecture class is that you become quite adept at learning how to convert 2^x values into an appropriate approximation. 2^10 is roughly equal to 1,000, 2^20 is roughly equal to 1,000,000, 2^30 is roughly equal to 1,000,000,000, etc. The power, divided by ten, results in three zeros for each additional multiple of ten: i.e. 2^10 is ~1000 (three zeros), 2^20 is ~1,000,000 (six zeros), 2^30 is ~1,000,000,000 (nine zeros), 2^40 is ~1,000,000,000,000 (twelve zeros). The number (one in the previous examples) in front of those zeros are simply two raised to the value between one and ten, i.e. 2^14 is 1,000 times 2^4, or 16,000, and 2^24 is 1,000,000 (2^20) times 2^4 (16), or ~16,000,000. 2^36, as another example, is 1,000,000,000 times 2^6 (64), or 64,000,000,000, etc. Just by memorizing two to the power of one through ten, you can calculate roughly any power of two.

Learning binary is a great way to learn the power of doubling. Just adding a single number to the power of two results in an explosion of the base ten-equivalent number's value. Think how long it would take to count between the various powers of 2 if you were individually saying the ticks, it would become too long to pursue very quickly, something around 2^10 would be insufferable for each additional power. The power of doubling is apparent when you study base two.

The import of the power of doubling lies in learning about the [Rule of 72](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mec-QpjQMXY), or the general rule that an approximation for the amount of time for an investment to double is 72 divided by the interest rate. For a total stock market index fund (VTSAX), your interest rate is going to be around 10%. That is to say, a total stock market index fund returns on average 10% a year. It is worthwhile to say that the actual 40 year average is slightly higher, something around 11.3%, but the 10% is easy math. 72 divided by ten is 7.2. So, it takes approximately seven years for your investment to double on average when you hold long-term ("Buy and Hold Forever," in the words of John Bogle, creator of Vanguard).

That's an amazing realization: that you can double your money every seven years on average. Mix that with the inherent understanding of binary and exponents of two that many computer scientists have, and you'll discover that doubling your money is extremely powerful, especially if you could find a way just to raise the power by a couple of points or two (i.e. add a couple 7.2 years)!

40 years of 10% interest (age 22-62) is 2^(40/7.2), or 2^5.56. 2^5 is 32 and 2^6 is 64, so the result will be between 32 and 64. 2^5.56 is actually 47. Let's say you succeed in maxing out your IRA and 401k over the course of the year at age 22 in your first junior developer job (a very easy task, I was able to on an NSF educational grant's salary): $25,500 * 47 = $1.2 million at age 62. That is to say, if you max out your 401k and IRA in index funds starting at age 22, you can essentially save enough for a comfortable retirement in just a couple years of extremely worthwhile frugality.

 Let's say you max out your 401k and IRA from age 22-26, when you're at your first junior developer job and you're studying at [Georgia Tech's OMSCS degree](https://omscs.gatech.edu/) (A $7,000 Master's Degree in Computer Science that accepts UoPeople degrees), completely paid for through your tuition reimbursement benefit at your job. You're earning your Master's of Science in CS for free, while accumulating something around $172,000 in principal in your 401k and IRA by maxing them out for five years.
 
 That $172,000 at age 26 will grow for your retirement by 2^((62-26)/7.2), or 32x. $172000 * 32 = ~$5.5 million dollars at age 62. So you've essentially guaranteed an extravagant retirement for yourself just by age 25, and you have a Master's in Computer Science, all while spending only $6600 on your education total with a F-You Degree. This is insanely possible. In fact, I've easily maxed out my IRA and 401k every year even while living in upstate New York on an NSF educational grant's salary, while spending only $8000 on my CS education (I went to a $1000/class local public university for eight classes). Remarkable things are possible as a computer scientist, even if you don't spend a lot on education.

There are two things you might want to note from this exercise in using a knowledge of binary for personal finance reasons. The first is that educational debt actually costs something around 40x its sticker cost, since the money you could be putting towards these investments gains (through index funds and taxed-advantaged accounts like your 401k and IRA) would instead be going to pay off your student loans. So the actual cost of college is something around 40x in opportunity cost. What I want you to take away is that spending as little money on education as possible while young is extremely important, more important than most are aware of. These 40x+ returns are only possible if you invest starting at a young age, and that is precluded if you have loans you have to pay off first. A $60,000 college degree's worth of debt is equivalent to $1.92 million dollars lost irrecoverably from your investment account. Don't waste your youth paying off loans that aren't even needed in this day and age of open source educational resources. Computer Science education is free and open source online!

The second take-away is that if your retirement is paid for at the age of 26, it enables you to spend THE REST OF YOUR LIFE up until retirement (when that 401k/IRA becomes available for withdrawal at 59.5) living off 100% of your salary, never investing another dime. I realize spending 100% of your salary is extremely enticing. And that's just a bit of the "F-You" independence that comes from being frugal. But a better take away is that, if you keep being frugal AFTER that five year period, you could easily save up enough to pay for a retirement TWICE. You could retire before your retirement age. You could Early Retire. That's what [Mr. Money Mustache](https://www.mrmoneymustache.com) did, working for ten years out of college while having a 70-90% savings rate and retiring at age 32 from a computer scientist's salary. It would seem more strategic, if you already learned how to be frugal for five years, to continue being frugal for an additional five years and never have to work again. That is possible through frugality and index fund investing.

Here's the interesting part: Assuming a 4% withdrawal rate (see: [JL Collins - "The 4% rule"](https://jlcollinsnh.com/2012/12/07/stocks-part-xiii-withdrawal-rates-how-much-can-i-spend-anyway/) and [MMM - "The 4% Rule"](https://www.mrmoneymustache.com/2012/05/29/how-much-do-i-need-for-retirement/)), you can multiply the "magic number" (two to the power of years till retirement over 7.2) at a particular age (in the case above of age 22, 47x) and then multiply THAT by .04 to figure out the amount that year that you're adding to your "salary" for retirement. So at age 22, which is 47 * .04 (1.88), you are earning $1.88 in retirement money that will be withdrawal-able EVERY YEAR after age 62 for each dollar you save! So if you max out your IRA and 401K at $25,500 a single year at age 22, you are adding around $48,000 for you to withdrawal EACH YEAR starting at retirement using the 4% Rule. Obviously inflation will eat into this amount, but ensuring $48,000 each year for yourself at retirement just through being frugal during your CS education and employment expresses how powerful compounding interest and index funds are!

Do this over the course of around 5 years from age 22-26, and you're facing something like having a yearly withdrawal rate at retirement of over $100,000 for just those five years of effort. With this sort of benefit from compounding, you should view maxing out your IRA and 401k in your early twenties as a full time job, with frugality your most important research project. Budgeting and avoiding any and all unnecessary purchases is crucial. To study frugality and becoming an expert, just like you studied computer science, is worth your time. Just by being frugal on a  programmer's salary for five years starting at age 22, you can almost guarantee yourself a comfortable retirement, and then you're free to do as you wish. To ignore this math is foolish, and there's a reason it isn't taught in schools. Imagine if universities admitted to student they were ripping them off! That's why your parents don't know this, and your friends don't know this, and no one's ever told you a university degree actually costs you millions of dollars when all is said and done. There is a powerful conflict of interest for educators, who make money off of large non-bankruptable loans sold to young people. When each dollar saved earns 32+ times its face value in your early twenties, spending large amounts money when young, even on education, is extremely harmful.

Many people think going to graduate school or expensive colleges are their ticket to wealth. But really, going to ZERO PRESTIGE universities like UoPeople and UBER FRUGAL Master's programs like GA Tech OMSCS (hopefully paid for through your tuition reimbursement benefit) is actually the secret to immense wealth, because instead of paying tuition and student loans, you're investing in index funds at age 22. It is, in my opinion, important to clarify that you can get a really good computer science education for extremely cheap thanks to the power of open source and the internet and philanthropic computer scientists. The caveat is that is has ZERO PRESTIGE. But if you have a big enough self-esteem and can live with a low prestige university mixed with frugality, you can retire in ten years of working flat. That seems like a better deal than going to a prestigious university and working for 45 years since you weren't able to invest when you were twenty-two, and your work wasn't able to cover the tuition completely in its tuition reimbursement program (or, even worse, you took time off from employment in your twenties to get a graduate degree). Your early twenties are a magic time to invest, your top priority should be maxing out your 401k and IRA through ALL FRUGAL MEANS rather than chasing after so-called prestigious degrees from so-called prestigious universities. In a sense, your late-teens/early-twenties should be dedicated to getting a F-You Degree as cheaply as possible, and your early-twenties employment years should be dedicated to investing as much money as possible while your "magic number" is once-in-a-lifetime high. Don't waste your money on degrees, no matter how many times you've been told a "good" education is key to wealth and success. Just like passive index funds beat active management because of the low cost, passive (zero prestige, completely average) university degrees beat prestigious degrees **because of the low cost**. 

It's become a joke in personal finance circles to condemn every expense when you're young as being many times what it's worth, i.e. a cup of coffee costing you $128 dollars instead of $4 when you're 22, but there has to be an enlightened mindset that recognizes that yes, frivolous expenses when you're young _does_ explode when you consider opportunity cost! Maybe you really _should_ nix that take-out coffee habit! Or better yet, avoid that student loan that's many tens of thousands of dollars (times THAT by 32!). Opportunity costs are just as real as any other financial mechanism. Realizing that when you're young is a tremendous blessing. Perhaps it can motivate you to study computer science using one of the affordable paths detailed on Holm School, like a F-You Degree. Perhaps it will change you into an extremely frugal person, when you grok that expenses are multiplied by 32+ in your twenties. There are a lot of possibilities to discover related to this, but my hope with this chapter is that you realize the math behind it at 18 instead of 35 years of age. By then, the equivalent amount of dollars you must pump into your investments just to retire comfortably are depressingly high. Either way you are going to have to be "extreme". My hope is that the "extreme" behavior is through empowerment instead of desperation. People malign the Financial Independence, Retire Early movement for being extreme, but in my opinion it's just as extreme to ignore the rich opportunity compound interest either offers you, or steals from you. Be extreme in a way that directly benefits you, instead of being extremely naive! Avoid debt when young, even on education, and put that money saved to work for you!


The F-You Degree - University of the People + Treehouse + Perlego + Holm School - is a sensible tactic given how noxious debt is to a young person. Hard work for four years and lots of reading will help secure you a junior dev position, which will kick off a career as a programmer. At the cost of a five hours of minimum wage work a week for four years while you study, you can begin employment as a programmer at age 22 with no debt. Wherein you can max out your tax-deferred 401k and IRA accounts every year for ten years while having a 50-80% savings rate, which will be enough to secure a more than comfortable frugal retirement.

This is the tactic I used: I went to two years of public university in my hometown and took as many CS classes as I could. I studied at Treehouse in my free time and on the holidays. I had the skills, thanks to Treehouse (which I got free through my public library) to work on the stack of an NSF grant. I lived frugally for two years, maxing out my 401k and IRA one of those years, having a more than 50% savings rate. I got a new job in a lower cost of living area (my hometown), and now have a savings rate around 70%. I am still maxing out my (Vanguard) 401k and (Vanguard) IRA and saving the surplus in my (Vanguard) brokerage account. I am young enough that the amount  I've put in will compound to a good sum to retire on at age 60 already. I will probably,  receiving tuition reimbursement through my current employer, get a Master's in CS through Georgia Tech's OMSCS degree. All this cost $8000 in education and two years of study total before scoring my first job: $1000 per class at the public university (eight in total) and zero dollars for studying at Treehouse. Obviously a public university will cost more than UoPeople, but my public university also got me my internship, which is now my current employer. $6000-8000 is the perfect cost of a F-You Degree. It just takes a few months of work to pay off, at which point you can start contributing to your 401k and IRA and invest in index funds in them. The F-You Degree is a great strategy, and a good compliment to a goal of financial independence at a young age.

The F-You Degree is robust. If you want to pursue a liberal arts degree, because it is your passion, you can do that after earning your F-You Degree. You can also just read classics and humanities books in your free time after your work as a programmer day-to-day and keep it as a hobby, but the F-You Degree will cover your ass in the likely situation that a liberal arts degree results in zero employability or jobs (as mine did). Knowing how to program is a great skill to have, and at only $6600 cost total, the four years you spend studying programming will ensure a lifetime of employability, even if you want to pursue other interests and jobs. It's the F-You Degree, it allows you to have greater autonomy and choice in what you do with your life after earning it. You can do anything with just a computer science degree. You can't do computer science with just any degree.

The F-You Degree is flexible, too. If you want to, you can subscribe to PluralSight for a year or two along the way to supplement your studies instead of Treehouse or Perlego. You probably get a Lynda account for free through your public library, too! Use Lynda as extensively as you can! Perhaps spend a few months studying just Lynda instead of paying for another service. The flexibility is yours, and hopefully Holm School will teach you how to "unschool" computer science so that you are able to masterfully craft a computer science curriculum yourself, at extremely low costs. Why, for example, pay for Perlego and Treehouse at the same time? Focus on completing 100% of Treehouse courses, THEN cancel your Treehouse account forever and start studying at Perlego! Do whatever it takes to get you your first programming job with as little money spent as possible.

Good luck in earning your F-You Degree. It is available for nearly anyone at anytime (I earned my F-You Degree at age 32, and thanks to Treehouse CEO Ryan Carson's podcast I learned about Mr. Money Mustache). A career in tech is a sure bet for financial independence when mixed with [Mr. Money Mustache](https://www.mrmoneymustache.com)-levels of frugality. Keep studying financial independence and personal finance along with your computer science studies, and in the end you'll earn the [F-You Money](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eikbQPldhPY) (NSFW) that comes from having an F-You Degree and zero educational debt.

Personal finance is an indispensable hobby to have if you're a computer scientist. Just by doing a few nonchalant tasks like reading [Mr. Money Mustache](https://www.mrmoneymustache.com) or [JL Collins's "Stock Series"](https://jlcollinsnh.com/stock-series/), you can implement a simple index-fund investing technique that enables luxuries like paid-off retirements at a young age or even early retirement at a young age. The return on investment in learning how to code is equally matched by the return on investment regarding learning how to be financially independent, frugal, and index invest. Take both opportunities that free internet resources offer, like [the free catalog of index fund books](https://holmschool.github.io/free-index-funds-books) and the [Holm School computer science curriculum](https://holmschool.github.io/computer-science) to truly study ideas that are empowering and enriching. This is the gift that the internet brings to every one of us. Don't squander your time by ignoring the opportunity. For just a few years of work and hard study while you're young, you'll have a lifetime of empowerment as you age.
I can attest, just by going to the local university in my hometown for two years and making copious use of the resources available at my public library and on Github, I've turned my life around. Rather than working at Chipotle's with my private college liberal arts degree, I now am poised for a comfortable retirement as a computer scientist in a decade more, all for $8000 total in educational costs. I hope it doesn't come off as bragging, instead I want to promote the rich opportunities that are available in your hometown as well as online. Most of us like to think that we're in an unfortunate position regarding where we were born, but a public library is an amazing place! Dreams can come true there. Unfortunately for many, it seems that it's [main competitor](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=azM6xSTT2I0), expensive colleges, are destroying dreams rather than enabling them. What a sorry circumstance, I certainly wish it weren't true, but "education about education" stands a chance of preventing that ruthless victimization.

I'm sure you're heard the various quotes from Einstein and Buffet about the power of compounding, but find a way to incorporate its principles into your choices as a young programmer. Even some not-so-extreme 'extreme' choices like frugality can reward you handsomely for your sacrifices. You're either sacrificing when you're old or when you're young, and given that one circumstance requires you working until you're 70 and the other permits you to stop working at 35 to pursue your passions, I hope the stakes are self-explanatory. The three factors in profit  from investing are amount invested, time invested, and rate of return. Downplaying things like rate of return by choosing "just average" index funds (for ultra-low costs) while maximizing your 401k and IRA each year leaves you with just time invested as under your control. By living frugally from a young age and avoiding the decadence of college will let you push that "time invested" number to its highest potential once you start your career as a programmer at 22 with no debt. Remember: just seven years of extra work doubles your existing savings! So pump as much principal into your tax-advantaged accounts as possible when young! How friggin' important and crucial is that knowledge!?!? But where is that being taught? Being a free market liberal is worth its weight in gold when you start living according to its sound, peaceful, Enlightened, and democratic principles. Being a [liberal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberalism) doesn't mean one should never participate in anything deemed "capitalistic" or wealth-enabling like investing. What a sorry state of the world that that is what professors in academia teach in their curricula to youth. They get rich off fat tuition loans while students lose out of the most potentially-enriching time of their lives because of the debt of that "education." That's why I hope you find inexpensive or free resources like Holm School, Treehouse, UoPeople, Perlego, JL Collins, and Mr. Money Mustache useful, and why I'm creating a free, open source online curriculum around them.

How will you behave once you know how to raise two to any power just by adding some extra years worth of investing? And to multiply that number by as large of principal as possible by being frugal? With index funds as your vehicle, how will you save? How frugal will you be? I hope to show you that rather than losing by pursuing F-You Money through an F-You Degree, you can very easily gain through the power of open source educational resources and the internet, mixed with some benevolent philanthropy from a large number of computer scientists.

Note: The idea (and underlying components) behind an F-You Degree is completely public domain. Feel free to reuse, rework, and remix. It is an Open Educational Resource (that uses Open Educational Resources)! Tell me what version of the F-You Degree worked for you in your circumstances! Again, thanks to JL Collins for his [Stock Series](https://jlcollinsnh.com/stock-series/) and his concept of "F-You Money". I don't mean to step on his toes with my appropriation, but rather raise his pedestal. His Stock Series is essential reading, computer scientist or not. It, along with Treehouse and Mr. Money Mustache, changed my life.


# Individual Breakdown of a Four-Year F-You Degree

### UoPeople - $4800

[UoPeople](https://www.uopeople.edu) is an online university that is philanthropic in their social justice-goal of providing an affordable computer science education to everyone. It cuts costs by using Open Educational Resources (free open source textbooks) as curriculum materials and volunteer professors. They, most importantly, offer a Bachelor's in Science degree in Computer Science. It offers a degree with zero prestige, but in exchange for not caring about things that are superficial compared to rolling up your sleeves and doing the hard work of learning, you can get a certified undergraduate degree for $4800.


### Treehouse - $1200

[Treehouse](https://www.teamtreehouse.com) is an online education platform that is philanthropic, though decidedly not a non-profit, and has a similar social justice-goal of providing an affordable computer science education to everyone. CEO Ryan Carson [has worked with Mr. Money Mustache](https://www.mrmoneymustache.com/2013/02/07/interview-with-a-ceo-ridiculous-student-loans-vs-the-future-of-education/) to spread the word about how devastating student loans are, and how good online education is. I was provided Treehouse free through my local public library. It's courses were so good I dropped out of public university in order to dedicate my full-time attention to completing its entire curriculum for free rather than paying for university classes. Ironically, I received a job offer just a few weeks after doing this (for working in a programming language I learned from Treehouse). It's a remarkable deal with an education comparable to a university education. I fully believe if you 100% complete the Treehouse curriculum, you will find yourself a junior development job even without a university degree. But mixing it with UoPeople would also be strategic.


### Perlego - $576

[Perlego](https://www.perlego.com) is an online subscription service for university-level textbooks. At the moment it is $12 a month. There are literally thousands of textbooks on all subjects. There are a ton of programming books and computer science textbooks. Treehouse, for example, is a little light on the more academic side of computer science, and that's where Perlego shines as an example of filling in those more academic holes on the cheap. Many sort of academic textbooks you can find here are already covered by Open Educational Resources (OER) textbooks, but $12 is pretty cheap for having a university library at your disposal. If you're studying at a philanthropic university like UoPeople, you'll want a Perlego subscription for all your non-class-specific academic readings. Truly a revolutionary piece of EdTech.

### Holm School - $0

[Holm School](https://holmschool.github.io/computer-science) is an attempt at recreating a university computer science curriculum using entirely free OER textbooks. It uses the Github repo [EbookFoundation/free-programming-books](https://github.com/EbookFoundation/free-programming-books) as source material for its textbook, among other [open source repos](https://holmschool.github.io/computer-science/#further-studies). This is all made possible because computer scientists came up with the idea of open source, and accordingly computer scientists are the most prolific in making computer science Open source Educational Resources and Open CourseWare (OCW are lectures of college classes recorded by college professors; for example, [CS50](https://cs50.harvard.edu/)). They are light years ahead of other departments. This is made possible through the philanthropy of kind-hearted and forward thinking computer scientists and professors, so don't squander your resources paying for books on computer science subjects when there is already a free open source textbook or two release on the subject matter. Also look at our list of [free index fund books](https://holmschool.github.io/free-index-funds-books/) for more regarding investing.

### Khan Academy - $0

[Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org) will fill in all your other introductory college-level subject matter, both liberal arts and STEM. 100% complete the curriculum to make your studies well-rounded.

### GA Tech OMSCS Degree - $0 through your first job's tuition reimbursement benefit

Have your [GA Tech Online Master's of Science in Computer Science](https://omscs.gatech.edu/) paid for by your first developer job's tuition reimbursement. It is so cheap it will fit within your yearly budget, essentially giving you a master's for free.

### Your Local Public Library

Essential for free programming books and subject matter for nearly everything other topic you'll want to study. They will probably have a Lynda account for you too (which has a ton of programming videos too, as well as many art-related classes). Seriously, you don't need to pay for anything related to education with a good public library. Interlibrary loans can bring you practically any textbook ever written. [The public library is an amazing place.](https://www.mrmoneymustache.com/2011/11/08/get-rich-with-the-library/)
